Tokenomics
Qubitex Crypto  tokenomincs domumentation 
1. QUTX  Tokenomics Concept
2. Functional Model of the QUTX  Token
3. Token Circulation Structure
4. Emission Model of the QUTX  Token
5. QUTX  Token Distribution 
6. Qubitex Crypto Monetization 
 
7. KeyTakeaways
1. QUTX Tokenomics Concept
Project Qubitex crypto, based on its own token QUTX, is a protocol that combines the popular functions of centralized applications into a single platform.
Qubitex is based on a centralized social network (СSN), an automated market maker (AMM) and a centralized exchange (CEX).
QUTX is a governance token. Community members have control over the QUTX protocol and the ability to vote on future updates.
Decision-making on all issues is assigned to token holders who can vote in proportion to the volume of tokens they own.
The token is intended to generate income from the activities of the Qubitex platform, which allows its value to increase in proportion to the growth of the overall ecosystem. QUTX distributes commissions from exchange operations in liquidity pools, depending on the period of liquidity blocking and in proportion to the number of stake tokens.
QUTX tokens are also used to further incentivize liquidity providers and support the platform's ecosystem.
The token is a self-contained unit of value that QUTX uses to manage its business model and enables users to interact with Qubitex Crypto products, contributing to the distribution of rewards and benefits to all parties.
The QUTX token is a full-fledged crypto asset, it can be used on other platforms and in other centralized applications (Apps).
QUTX acts as a Utility token and gives access to the functions of the Qubitex centralized social network (Qubitex CSN), the opportunity to participate in The CEX Initial Offering (IDO) held on the platform, and a reward system for generating useful content.
Qubitex acts as a means of communication within the platform. All sales, purchases, payments, rewards on the Qubitex Crypto platform are carried out only in QUTX tokens. Including, using QUTX tokens, are users rewarded, QUTX tokens serve as a measure of value when selling and buying NFT tokens.
QUTX tokens are the internal equivalent for all monetization programs created on the Qubitex  Crypto platform, serve as an internal unit of account, and are used for internal circulation in Qubitex .
All rights of the QUTX token are fixed in its functional model.
2. Functional model of QUTX Token
The entire ecosystem is focused on creating and maintaining demand for the QUTX token. By developing the ecosystem, the community increases the demand for the token and ensures natural organic growth in value. Tokens allow you to monetize liquidity and distribute asset flow fairly among all members of the community.
The functional content of the QUTX token:
Purpose: to provide the community with access to platform services.
Function: Token is an access key to financial services of the Qubitex Crypto ecosystem.
Goal: Involving the community in the accelerated development of the platform and the expansion of the ecosystem.
Function: Token is a platform management key that allows you to participate in the choice of project development directions and the introduction of new products.
Objective: Create a launching pad for launching new centralized projects.
Function: Token is a tool for attracting an audience of new projects placed on Qubitex Crypto LaunchPad and financially assessing their potential.
Goal: Formation of the Qubitex Crypto economy.
a. Token as a measure of value: all commissions and prices on the platform are nominated in Qubitex Crypto.
b. Token as a means of circulation: Qubitex acts as a means of payment for any transactions within the platform. Qubitex has high liquidity and can be instantly exchanged for another cryptocurrency in AMM pools on the platform and external platforms.
c. Token as an investment tool. The intrinsic value and transparent emission model allow the token to be used to receive a reward when used as a tool for generating liquidity and staking within the platform.
Objective: Funding the initial development of the Qubitex Crypto platform.
Function: Attracting funding from the team at the initial stage of project development through an additional emission of 0.5% of the total emission of QUTX tokens on the platform.
3. Token Circulation Structure
Qubitex Crypto has created and is continuously developing a self-stabilizing token circulation structure. It is based on the exact volume of emission of QUTX tokens without opportunities to increase the number of tokens in the future.
When building the internal economy of the platform Qubitex, a monetary system for regulating the token rate is used, which allows ensuring predictable demand and balance the internal economic processes of the platform.
Payment services, the Сommission first, remuneration for content creation, and all forms of monetization within the platform will be nominated only token QUTX.
The growing volume from circulation supply to QUTX will be driven by the demand generated by the following flows:
1) staking of a token on the platform in order to generate additional income;
2) buying and providing a token to liquidity pools on the platform Qubitex Crypto;
3) buying a token as a means of payment for purchasing platform services and NFT assets on the Qubitex Crypto marketplace
4) holding a token by community members;
5) purchasing and providing Qubitex Crypto into pools and staking liquidity pools on the outer platforms;
6) the demand for the token from new projects hosted on Launchpad. The condition for placing on the site Qubitex Crypto Launchpad will be the mandatory use of a token in the IDO of a new project
7) using QUTX as a government token. The involved community and a significant number of projects put up for voting create a demand for the token in order to increase the voice in decision-making.
Thus, the stability of the internal economy of Qubitex Crypto  is ensured by the monetary model of the token, which is formed by transparent emission and an increase in the volume of services.
4. Emission Model of the QUTX  Token 
The total final supply of QUTX tokens will be 21 million QUTX, they are being introduced into circulation in stages.
When constructing the internal economy of Qubitex Crypto , key aspects of the model to be created and factors affecting the price of QUTX token must be taken into account. The formal form of the relationship between the utility of key services and the price of token QUTX will be expressed through the standard exchange equation:
MV=PQ, where M is the total market value of a QUTX's circulating supply (Market Cap = Current Price x Circulating Supply),
V is the circulation rate of tokens in the Qubitex Crypto ecosystem,
P is the utility of the platform's key products, tools and services,
Q is the cumulative volume of transactions within the Qubitex Crypto platform.
To maintain a fair distribution of tokens, the key issue will be aimed at rewarding liquidity providers. In addition to the commission share, liquidity providers will be rewarded with QUTX tokens.
The maximum reward will be directed to liquidity pairs that include the QUTX token in order to support initial demand and stimulate community growth. The amount of remuneration is set at 100,000 QUTX will b halved иtly until it reaches 25,000 QUTX per day.
The Qubitex Crypto team receives 1,75% of the total emission of tokens, which are additionally issued when distributing rewards among the community.
5. QUTX  Token Distribution 
Qubitex Crypto will focus on providing solutions, products, and functions of the Platform, which can be quickly and efficiently implemented increasing the relevance, circulation velocity, and value of QUTX tokens.
6% - Private sale - 1,260, 000 QUTX (18 months lockup period)
2% - Pre sale- 420,000 QUTX
11% - IDO - 2,310,000 QUTX
0,25% - Airdrop - 52,500 QUTX
1,75% - Team - 367,500 QUTX (24 months lockup period)
10% - Marketing & Development - 2,100,000 QUTX
69% - Staking, Liquidity, Incentives, Ecosystem - 14,490,000 QUTX
6. Qubitex Crypto Monetization 
There are four main ways to make money with Qubitex Crypto, depending on the risk appetite of users and the size of the investment.
a. The user provides liquidity to the Qubitex Crypto protocol. This allows you to qualify for a portion of the commissions proportional to the user's contribution to the pool and liquidity tokens (QLP).
b. Yield farming allows the user to receive QUTX tokens as a reward for placing assets in staking pools.
c. The user can directly stake QUTX tokens, earning tokens in the form of interest on the deposit.
d. The user can earn QUTX tokens by generating content on the Qubitex Crypto platform. The amount of payments is determined by the community through the Governance function and free demand when issuing and selling NFT tokens.
e. QLP liquidity tokens serve as a key to access tokens for new projects placed on Qubitex Crypto Launchpad and allow you to receive income from participation in IDO.
The demand for Qubitex is formed due to the volume of filling QUTX liquidity pools and its demand as a Utility token.
7. KeyTakeaways
1. QUTX is a governance token. The development of the platform is under the control of token holders with 50% + 1% QUTX.
2. The entire Qubitex Crypto ecosystem is focused on creating and maintaining demand for the QUTX  token. Any activity on the platform should be focused on creating demand for the token.
3. The key parameters for maintaining a stable project economy are Total Value Locked (TVL), emissions (QUTX ), Circulating Supply (QUTX ), community size (Users).
4. Total Value Locked (TVL) of the project, not including the cost of QUTX tokens, must not be lower than 80% of the market capitalization of QUTX  tokens.
5. Changes in token emission volumes should be rigidly tied and proportional to TVL growth.
6. The model is adaptive, key parameters can be adjusted at any stage of the project development.
